https://zerodha.com/varsity/chapter/call-option-basics/
action construction
idfc -
ei hotels
In India
80% of the derivatives traded are options and rest as futures

There are two types of options – The Call option and the Put option


Example - Suppose Ajay wants to buy something from future thinking the proces will go up so

Since Venu has received the advance from Ajay, 
Venu is called the ‘agreement seller or Writer’ and Ajay is called the ‘agreement buyer’

In other words since this agreement is called “an options agreement”,
 Ajay can be called an Options Buyer and Venu the Options Seller/writer.

The agreement is entered after the exchange of 1 lakh, hence 1 lakh is the price of this
 option agreement. This is also called the “Premium” amount

Every variable in the agreement – Area of the land, price and the date of sale is fixed.

As a thumb rule, in an options agreement the buyer always has a right and the
seller has an obligation(has to sell it if buyer wants it)


CALL Options
Assume a stock is trading at Rs.67/- today. You are given a right today to
buy the same one month later, at say Rs. 75/-, but only if the share price on that day
is more than Rs. 75, would you buy it?. Obviously you would, as this means to say that after 1 month even if the share is trading at 85, you can still get to buy it at Rs.75!

In order to get this right you are required to pay a small amount today, say Rs.5.0/-.
If the share price moves above Rs. 75, you can exercise your right and buy the shares at Rs. 75/-.
If the share price stays at or below Rs. 75/- you do not exercise your right and you 
do not need to buy the shares. All you lose is Rs. 5/- in this case. An arrangement of this
sort is called Option Contract, a ‘Call Option’ to be precise.




Here Rs 75 is the strike price
. If you ever hear the line “exercise the option contract” in the context of a 
call option, it simply means that one is claiming the right to buy the stock at the agreed strike price

#  you can exercise the option only on the day of the expiry and not anytime before the expiry.

Hence, assume with 15 days to expiry one buys ITC 340 Call option when ITC is 
trading at 330 in the spot market. Further assume, after he buys the 340 call option, the stock price increases to 360 the very next day. Under such a scenario, 
the option buyer cannot ask for a settlement (he cannot exercise) against the call option he holds. Settlement will happen only on the day of the expiry, based on the price the asset is 
trading in the spot market on the expiry day.



 #  "In fact both equity futures and option contracts expire on the last Thursday of every month"


 PREMIUMS are very important here as the option writer/seller is profitting from it only
To be precise there are 5 factors (similar to news and time) that tends to affect the premium
In real markets premiums vary almost on a minute by minute basis
Premiums are in per share and we have to buy a lot (certain amount of shares)
Options are cash settled in India, (no need to transfer stocks..just send the profit loss money)

