1. Strike Price - it simply means that one is claiming the right to buy the stock
at the agreed strike price

2. Call Option - Where we believe the prices will go up, call option buyer has the option to buy or not to buy on expiry

3. LOT - no of shares that one has to buy in the contract

4. Spot Price - The current price of the derivative

5. Intrinsic Value (IV)  = spot price - strike price -- if this is +ve i will excercise the option

6. P&L of call option = MAX(0, IV) - Premium Paid

7. Break Even  - The losses keep getting minimized till a point where the trade neither results 
   in a profit or a loss. This is called the breakeven point.
   B.E = Strike Price + Premium Paid

8. P&L for call option seller  = Premium – Max [0, (Spot Price – Strike Price)]

9. Breakdown point for the call option seller = Strike Price + Premium Received

10. Buying a call option is also referred to as ‘Long on a Call Option’ or simply ‘Long Call’

11. Selling a call option is also called ‘Shorting a call option’ or simply ‘Short Call’

12 . European Options – If the option type is European then it means that the option buyer
will have to mandatory wait till the expiry date to exercise his right. The settlement is based 
on the value of spot market on expiry day. For example if he has bought a Bajaj Auto 2050 Call 
option, then for the buyer to be profitable Bajaj Auto has to go higher than the breakeven point 
on the day of the expiry. Even not it the option is worthless to the buyer and he will lose all 
the premium money that he paid to the Option seller.

13. American Options – In an American Option, the option buyer can exercise his right to 
buy the option whenever he deems appropriate during the tenure of the options expiry. 
The settlement is dependent of the spot market at that given moment and not really depended on 
expiry. 


14. So all options in India are now European in nature, which means the buyer can exercise his 
option based on the spot price on the expiry day.
